---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Algorithms - Cloud Computing
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-04-18
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Cloud Computing
---

## 1 Introduction

According to Above the Clouds: A Berkeley View of Cloud Computing (Berkeley research paper), Cloud Computing is the long-held dream of computing as a utility and has the potential to transform a large part of the IT industry. Doing this will allow certain software to be more attractive as a service and changing the way IT hardware is designed and purchased [1]. In this paper, cloud computing will be defined, and several goals to achieve the most efficient cloud computing, and obstacles and opportunities for growth of cloud computing.
  
## 2 Summary

The summary section will be split into several subsections to explain the definition of cloud computing, the paper’s goals, reasoning between cloud computing and Software as a Service (SaaS), and obstacles and opportunities for growth of cloud computing.  
2.1 Definition of Cloud Computing
According to the Berkeley research paper, cloud computing allows applications to be delivered as services over the Internet. It also means that the hardware and systems software in the datacenters provide those services.  These services are called Software as a Service (SaaS). The hardware that the datacenters have are called Cloud. When clouds are in a pay-as-you-go manner, there are referred as Public Cloud. Services that are being sold are called Utility Computing. In the Berkley research paper, Amazon Web Services, Google AppEngine, and Microsoft Azure are all examples of public Utility Computing. Internal datacenters of a business or other organization that are not made available to the public are called Private Cloud. Cloud Computing is the sum of SaaS and Utility Computing but does not generally include Private Clouds. There are three aspects that are new in Cloud Computing from a hardware point of view. These aspects are: the illusion of infinite computing resources available on demand, which would eliminate the need for Cloud Computing users to plan ahead for provisioning, the elimination of an up-front commitment by Cloud users which will allow other companies to start small and increase hardware sources to only allow them to increase the use whenever they are in need, and the ability to pay for use of computing resources on a short-term basis as needed. For an example, processors by the hour and storage by the day are resources needed for a company. This will allow them to release them as needed and allowing to reward conservation from the machines and storage when they are no longer useful.   
There are a few conditions that might give a variety of factors that might influence companies like, Amazon, eBay, Google, Microsoft, and many more to become Cloud Computing providers. These conditions are: make a lot of money, leverage existing investment, defend a franchise, attack an incumbent, leverage customer relationships, and become a platform. In the Berkeley research paper, it is explained thoroughly why these conditions influence these companies. To briefly explain it, a sufficiently large company could leverage economic scales to offer a server that is better than the costs of a medium-sized company and still make a profit. To leverage the existing investment, adding Cloud Computing servers on top of existing infrastructure provides a new revenue stream at a low incremental cost, according to the Berkeley research paper. To defend a franchise, let’s say Microsoft Azure provides an immediate path for migrating existing customers of Microsoft enterprise applications to a cloud environment. So, it is important to keep your customers motivated and interested with a Cloud Computing option of their own. To attack an incumbent, let’s say Google AppEngine provides an alternative path to cloud deployment whose appeal lies in its automation of many of the scalability and load balancing features that developers might otherwise have to build for themselves. To allow leverage customer relationships, the company must provide a branded Cloud Computing offering that gives those customers an anxiety-free migration path that preserves both parties’ investments in the customer relationship. This will improve the relationship with the companies’ customers. Lastly, to become a platform, this is straightforward, and it basically means to enable plug-in applications to become a cloud computing company. For an example, Facebook launched a cloud provider, Joyent, so this was Facebook’s motivation to make their social-networking application as a new development platform.
2.2 Top 10 Obstacles to and Opportunities for Growth of Cloud Computing
	To briefing explain the next topic(s), there will be ten obstacles and ten opportunities to help the growth of cloud computing. These obstacles and opportunities are availability of service which would give uses to multiple cloud providers and use elasticity to prevent DDOS (Distributed Denial of Service), and data lock-in which would help standardize APIs and have compatible SW to enable surge computing. Thirdly, data confidentiality and auditability will allow and deploy encryption, VLANs, firewalls and geographical data storage. Fourthly, data transfer bottlenecks are an obstacle and will create an opportunity to FedExing Disks, Data Backup/Archival and higher BW switches. Fifthly, performance unpredictability will help improve VM support, flash memory and gang schedule VMs. Sixthly, scalable storage is an obstacle and will create an opportunity to invent a scalable store. The next four obstacles are bugs in large distributed systems, scaling quickly, reputation fate sharing, and lastly, software licensing. These were all taken from the Berkeley research paper. The next few sub-subsections will give a brief description of each obstacle and opportunity.  
2.2.1 Availability of Service
	Companies have to worry about whether Utility Computing services will have acceptable availability and this makes some wary of Cloud Computing. There are also another availability obstacle which is Distrubted Denail of Server (DDoS) attacks. Criminals all over the world threathen to cut off the incomes of SaaS providers which would make their services unavailable. This would extort $10,000 to $50,000 payments to prevent another or a launch of a DDoS attack.  
2.2.2 Data Lock-In

Customer lock-in may be attractive to the Cloud Computing providers, but Cloud Computing users are vulnerable to price increases to reliability problems, or even to providers going out of business. According to the Berkeley research paper, there was an online storage service called The Linkup that was shut down on August 8, 2008 after losing access as much as 45% of customer data. The company had other storage services storing user data altogether, so both were at blame.  
2.2.3 Data Confidentiality and Auditability

According to the Berkeley research paper, they believed that there are no fundamental obstacles to making a cloud-computing environment as secure as the vast majority of in-house IT environments. SaaS providers and users were given greater freedom to place their storage by the usage of Cloud Computing. For an example, in the United States and in Europe, Amazon provides S3 services (Amazon Simple Storage Service) and this would allow the providers to keep data in their own way.  
2.2.4 Data Transfer Bottlenecks

Cloud users and cloud providers have to think about the implications of placement and traffic at every level of the system if they want to minimize costs. To ship disks, is one opportunity to overcome the high costs of Internet transfers. According to the Berkeley research paper Jim Gray found the cheapest way to send a lot of data, which was to physically send disks or even whole computers via overnight delivery services.  
2.2.5 Performance Unpredictability

Having multiple Virtual Machines can share CPU’s and main memory surprisingly well in Cloud Computing. However, it makes I/O sharing more problematic. In the Berkeley research paper, there are a few figures that indicate the amount of average memory bandwidth for different kinds of virtual machines. Another unpredictability obstacle worries the preparation of virtual machines for some classes of group processing complications, specifically high-performance computing.  
2.2.6 Scalable Storage

Cloud Computing appeals with short-term usage which implies scaling down as well as scaling up whenever resources are no longer accessible or desirable. The opportunity is to create a storage system that would not only meet these needs but to combine them with the cloud advantages of scaling up and down on-demand. The programmer expectation are also needed to be met which are resource management for scalability, data durability, and high availability.  
2.2.7 Bugs in Large Distributed Systems

According to the Berkeley research paper, one of the difficult obstacles or challenges in Cloud Computing is to remove the errors in these very large scale distributed systems. There is a common occurrence that these bugs cannot be reproduced in smaller configurations which would make it even more difficult to debug because debugging must occur at a scale in the production datacenters.  
2.2.8 Scaling Quickly

The opportunity is to automatically scale quickly up and scale down in response to load in order to save money while following the service level agreements. Another reason for scaling is to conserve resources as well as money.  
2.2.9 Reputation Fate Sharing

These do not virtualize well. A negative customer could affect the reputation of the cloud as a whole. Cloud Computing providers would want legal liability to remain with the customer. The opportunity would be to create reputation-guarding services similar to what we have offered today by smaller ISP’s (Internet Service Providers) which is “trusted email” services.  
2.2.10 Software Licensing

The last obstacle is that the current software licenses commonly restrict the computers on which the software can run. Users and consumers would have to pay for the software and then pay an annual or even monthly maintenance fee. The primary opportunity is either for open source to remain prevalent or merely for commercial software businesses to modify their licensing structure to improve Cloud Computing.
  
## 3 Conclusion
To conclude, the current report defined Cloud Computing and interpreted examples on how Cloud Computing is used all over the world by well-known companies, such as Google, Microsoft Azure, Amazon, and etc. The written report also discusses a top ten list of obstacles and opportunities that would help benefit the growth of Cloud Computing.

## Reference
[1] M. Armburst, A. Fox, R. Griffith, A. Joseph, R. Katz, A. Konwinski, G. Lee, D. Patterson, A. 
Rabkin, I. Stoica, and M. Zaharia, “Above the Clouds: A Berkeley View of Cloud 
Computing”, EECS Dept. U. California, Berkeley, Tech. Rept. UCB/EECS2009-28. 2009.
