---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Lifelong Learning as a Computer Engineer
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-02-24
labels:
  - Computer Engineering
  - Lifelong Learning
---
## 1 Introduction

Lifelong learning can	be important for many types of professions. Teaching is a great example on how lifelong learning is applied to the education field. However, this report will explain how lifelong learning is important to the engineering profession. Section 2 will briefly define lifelong learning and provide examples on how to implement lifelong learning in our everyday lives with an engineering profession. Section 3 will state reasons why lifelong learning is important and how the application of lifelong learning as engineers can benefit others in the society.
  
## 2 Definition of Lifelong Learning

Lifelong learning is a type of learning that involves formal education, and informal education that continues throughout a person’s life and ensures the peer to prepared with the right skills, abilities, and mental health for his or her self-education [1]. Formal education is classroom-based and taught by teachers and professors who are paid. Informal education is anything that involves outside the classroom or anything does not involve school-related activities and work [2]. An example of lifelong learning is a full-time student who studies at a well-known university, works/interns at a technological company, like Apple, and has free self-made projects that are made for the public. This example shows that the person is learning formally, informally, and finding ways to help the community by creating self-projects. Another way of expressing lifelong learning is that education can change over time. The material that is learned in schools, university, and such, are not always modernistic or up-to-date. The importance of lifelong learning will be discussed extensively in Section 3 of the report.
  
Lifelong learning drastically benefits me throughout my education career. This type of learning motivates me every year because of how education can vary over time. The material in fundamental classes needed for an engineering major are obviously basics and important so that will never change. Once I finish completing my degree and receive a computer engineering job, I must keep in mind that technology, especially in computer engineering, is always evolving. With lifelong learning, I can implement it in my everyday life. since lifelong learning occurs endlessly. I can apply this to my everyday life by studying on my own time about topics that interests me, affect the world, and creating self-made projects that try to benefit the community. Another way of expressing lifelong learning in my everyday life is to learn how the community changes and acquire information by being aware on how to satisfy people’s interchanging desires. In the next following subsections, the report will explain how to apply lifelong learning generally to the engineering profession.
  
2.1 Informal Education

According to eera-ecer.de, Informal learning is considered to be a major source of educational opportunity [3]. And we know that informal education is part of lifelong learning which was previously stated in the report. We can use that to apply exceptional opportunities in the engineering department. Studying at the public library, reading books written by fellow engineers, learn from different perspectives from other engineers, taking the time to research on your own time to study how the world works in an engineering perspective, like how solar panels or talking robots work, and learning about other facts that pertains to your profession could also support and aid you with your expertise in engineering ultimately.

2.2 School Activities and Clubs

School activities would be an ideal way in reinforcing your lifelong learning style because learning with hands-on activities is more optimal than reading the textbook and apply the material to textbook problems. Participating in school club meetings, like American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES), would help drastically with your engineering profession because you will earn the ability to experience what other engineers have to undergo as a student, intern, and full-time employee. The AISES meeting was to discuss about travel opportunities for leadership and professional development. General meetings like this can be implemented to your lifelong learning experience because we are obtaining insight from a community that are in your future profession.
  
2.3 Experiences and Internships

Next, we will explain how internships, which leads to experiences, positively apply into the lifelong learning concept for an engineer profession. In 2010, a UH Manoa article was published to offer residential students with a 3.0 GPA or higher to participate in a paid summer internship that involves with intensive research about computational fluid dynamics with experts in the areas of tsunami modeling, micro pin-fin arrays, and whale pectoral fin modeling [4]. Students who successful apply and get accepted to any type of internship is at a exceptional advantage for a future engineer profession. Participating in these internships will allow technology companies, who might have interests in you, to examine your experiences with any type of engineering you are applying for. Once they review your past experiences, the tech company would know that you have capable for the career job. Therefore, applying for internships is important and would benefit your lifelong learning experience with an engineering profession.
  
2.4 Self-made projects and Mandatory School Projects

“The best way to predict the future is to create it.” This quote is essential to anyone in the engineering profession because as engineers we are looked as curious, innovative, and logical people. Making self-made projects or creating mandatory school projects for your community or university is what makes us engineers. Learning to make simple projects to creating substantial and extraordinary projects could make us more resourceful because as we create small projects to bigger projects, our knowledge in the engineering profession will grow exponentially. This serves a consequential asset to the lifelong learning concept of an engineer. Even UH Manoa [5], offers great mandatory projects that could help us gain the knowledge to motivate us, engineers, to create more self-made projects on our own time.
  
2.5 Formal Education

This is presumably the most important type of lifelong learning you can easily accomplish as an upcoming engineer. The fundamental classes needed for your degree is important to help you understand the foundation of your final major. The upper level classes are more in depth to what you are expecting in the future for your engineering profession. Graduating with a bachelor or PhD in engineering is appealing for tech companies all over the world. However, a degree can be ineffectual if the student has no experience. So, it is important to use the material that you have learned from school, and university to receive an advantage and gain experience to help your future.
  
2.6 Traveling Opportunities

Traveling opportunities are excellent for lifelong learning as an engineer. Taking an advantage of offers and tours from companies that interests you especially is the right choice in improving your familiarity in your specific engineering profession. You do not have to receive and offer from the company, if you take the effort to travel to the places and ask if the company or association allows walk-in tours, it would be favorable for your experience especially. Learning and exploring your future workspace is important for your engineering profession. As stated in transitionsabroad.com [6], “travel has changed a great deal in our lifetimes.” As general as it sounds, this quote can still apply to the engineering profession because taking the chance to adventure situations that you could not experience in the future, is valuable for your lifelong learning involvement.
  
2.7 Seminars

Participating in seminars could expand your education in the engineering aspect. As it is very similar with school activities and clubs, seminars are slightly different. Seminars are engaging in an on-going discussion that pertains to the leader’s topic choice. Asking counter-questions for the people around you, could allow you to recognize other people’s perspectives on how accomplish goals. In UH Manoa there are many offers like a recent seminar was about the topic: “Can Needle-Sized Robot Tentacles Help Surgeons Save Lives? [7]” Participating at any type of seminar that especially relates to your engineering profession could benefit you in the future. Also, seminars apply positively to the lifelong learning aspects of an engineer.
  
2.8 Time with professors

Spending time with professors can help improve your relationship with a professor who is experienced with the field of profession you are looking for. Doing this will allow you to gain an advantage and hopefully grant you a special letter of recommendation to your future internships or even full-time jobs. Speaking with your professors also allows to improve information for your specific major. This certainly benefits the lifelong learning experience as an engineer.
  
2.9 Positive mentality

According to research.vuse.vanderbilt.edu, a positive attitude will help you learn and no matter what level of education you have, if you want to succeed, you need to keep on learning (informal education). “A positive attitude lets you relax, remember, focus and absorb information as you learn. You’re ready to welcome new experiences and recognize many different kinds of learning opportunities. And when you can see opportunities, hope increases [8].” This shows that maintain a positive mentality will allow the student or person to be open to learning opportunities. This is a great way to help improve your lifelong learning experience in a general way because keeping a positive mind will help you complete the other 8 subsections, that has been previously stated in the report, efficiently.
  
2.10 Social skills

Having proper social skills will make your work more appealing and more attractive for the targeted consumers. According to naspcenter.org, social skills promote positive behavior, academic success and school safety. “Good social skills are critical to successful functioning in life. These skills enable us to know what to say, how to make good choices, and how to behave in diverse situations. [9]” Having the right social skills will allow engineers in their specific profession to make more efficient choices that is ideal for the community. As we know, technology develops rapidly over time. With this skill, engineers would be able to manage time wisely and adapt to what the community wants.
  
## 3 Importance of Lifelong Learning

The importance of lifelong learning is straightforward. With the definition of lifelong learning, you can never stop learning because there are opportunities everywhere in your life and sometimes we are not aware that we are achievement knowledge growth throughout the years. To keep in mind, lifelong means constant, continuing, long-lasting, and permanent. So even if we grow older, we will still proceed to improve our intelligence on something we desire the most. Now, the report will express reasons why lifelong learning is important to society and to the engineering profession specifically.
  
3.1 Community

As stated before, community and technology develop rapidly over time. The community’s needs change over the years as technology too. There will always be better engineers in the world and that is why we take the time to research about them to see what they are doing right for the community. As community changes, it is important to keep your lifelong learning aspects comfortably because we need to knowledge to express it more readily for the community that changes their desires. For an example, the society approved gigantic cellphones and home phones but throughout the years, people start to complain and as people start to complain, engineers that create these phones must come up with ideas to please satisfy these enraged consumers. And one solution for the engineers would be to reduce the size of the phone and minimize the parts used inside the phone’s circuit board. That is why understanding the community is important for an engineering who is using lifelong learning experiences.
  
3.2 Creativity

This is very similar pertaining to the community reasoning. But it is slightly different. Being creative for your own projects or for your job, recognizes you to be conspicuous. Using lifelong learning aspects will compliment your work and support your ideas to be more creative. Creativity not only benefits the society, but it exhibits your achievement to the whole world exceedingly.

3.3 Lifelong Learning Facts

According to pewinternet.org, 73% of adults consider themselves life long learners, 74% of adults are what we call personal learners, and 63% of those who are working are professional learners [10]. Personal learners are people who participated in activities that interests themselves. Professional leaners are people who received additional training to improve their jobs skills or expertise. The Pew Research Center surveyed and showed the extent to which America is a nation of ongoing learners. The fact that over 50% of Americans are still ongoing learners, which also means lifelong learning, shows how important this asset is. There are many stated facts on the given source. The importance of lifelong learning is universal and practiced by almost everyone.
  
## 4 Conclusion

Ultimately, lifelong learning as an engineer or a peer will be ongoing throughout the person’s life. The report stated 10 examples on how to express lifelong learning generally as an engineer. These examples were: informal education, school activities and clubs, experiences and internships, self-made projects and mandatory school projects, formal education, travel opportunities, seminars, time with professors, positive mentality and lastly social skills. Given these points, the report stated 3 reasons that lifelong learning is important. These reasons were: community, creativity, and everyone is learning! Overall, lifelong learning, in an engineering aspect, is important and it benefits others in a positive way if we use it efficiently.
	

## Reference
[1] Naimpally, Ashok. “2 – Definitions of Lifelong Learning and How They Relate to the 
Engineering Profession.” Definitions of Lifelong Learning and How They Relate to the 
Engineering Profession - Lifelong Learning for Engineers and Scientists in the Information 
Age - 2, 2012, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123852144000027.

[2] “Formal vs. Informal Education.” Enhancing Education: Formal vs. Informal Education, 2002, 
enhancinged.wgbh.org/started/what/formal.html.

[3] Tippelt, Rudolf. “ECER Programmes | EERA.” To Eera Frontpage, 10 Sept. 2008, 
www.eera-ecer.de/ecer-programmes/conference/1/contribution/801/.

[4] “College of Engineering Offering Paid Summer Internships.” Mānoa: College of Engineering
Offering Paid Summer Internships | University of Hawaii News, 
manoa.hawaii.edu/news/article.php?aId=3357.

[5] “Electrical Engineering.” University of Hawaii - Department of Electrical Engineering, 
www-ee.eng.hawaii.edu/student/index.php?stc=1&stp=132.

[6] Voigts, Jessie. “Travel: A Lifelong Journey of Learning.” Travel: A Lifelong Journey of 
Learning, Dec. 2013, 
www.transitionsabroad.com/listings/study/articles/educational-travel-lifelong-
learning.shtml.

[7] “Needlescopic Surgical Instruments.” Needlescopic Surgical Instruments | MEDLab, 
research.vuse.vanderbilt.edu/MEDLab/research/needle-sized-wrists.

[8] “A Positive Attitude Will Help You Learn - Alis.” Government of Alberta, 
alis.alberta.ca/succeed-at-work/explore-ways-to-improve-your-work/a-positive-attitude-
will- help-you-learn/.

[9] “Social Skills: Promoting Positive Behavior, Academic Success, and School Safety.” NASP 
Center, www.naspcenter.org/factsheets/socialskills_fs.html.

[10] Horrigan, John B. “Lifelong Learning and Technology.” Pew Research Center: Internet, 
Science & Tech, 22 Mar. 2016, 
www.pewinternet.org/2016/03/22/lifelong-learning-and-technology/.
